# This repository is about a direction classifier to play a game
The idea is that using only head movements one should be able to provide enough distinct inputs for a simple game, removing the need for special controllers if conventional inputs are not suitable. I have made this project a while ago, but this was using Tensorflow, a self trained CNN model, the live webcam feed and no development tools like github or MLFlow. This time I want to use Pytorch, a different neural network that uses opencv Face masks and Github with MLFlow for project development. This will most likely be 100% python. I have the intention to rewrite this into an application in C# at a later stage.

## The goal
To be able to consistently control a simple 2D game based on headmovements recorded live with my webcam. For the game I will take Stardew Valley. This is a game I already own, is played very casually and has relatively simple controls. 

## Requirements
This project is written in python using uv as a package manager. I am using pytorch with cuda capabilities as my machine learning package to train the model.

The packages used so far are:
-    MLflow
-    Pytorch
-    Opencv


## Project layout
The project will hold a few project based files, an example folder that is used to follow the tutorial given by MLFlow(see next paragraph) and a src folder that contains my actual project information. The example might get moved to a new repository to clean up this repository at a later time.

### Project based files
I will have some files like a pre-commit-config to apply black formatter, mlflow.db/mlruns.db for using MLflow locally and some files generated by uv. These will be adjusted when needed, feel free to leave recommendations/tips since it is my second time using a package manager and would like to learn about how to use it more effectively.

### MLFlow example file
This repository will include an example of how to use mlflow a machine learning toolkit to implement CI/CD and versioning for ML/AI models.
I am going to show the progress of using MLflow since part of the project is to get some hands-on experience for this.
This first try-out is based on the following reference tutorial: https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/ml/getting-started/deep-learning/

### Back-end code
The repository has a src folder that contains all the functions used for the project.


# How to initialize the MLflow process

We can start a MLflow local server using the following command in a bash script: ``` mlflow server --port 5000```
This will start a local hosted server with the MLflow UI that lets you explore the trained model's metrics as well as other information.

(Should be updated when its more clear what can be done with MLflow)

When the local hosted server is running we can use the following to test if the connection is working:

```python
import mlflow

# Print connection information
print(f"MLflow Tracking URI: {mlflow.get_tracking_uri()}")
print(f"Active Experiment: {mlflow.get_experiment_by_name('my-first-experiment')}")

# Test logging
with mlflow.start_run():
    mlflow.log_param("test_param", "test_value")
    print("✓ Successfully connected to MLflow!")
```

After this we can implement it in our training 
